
NBA approves Sonics' move to Oklahoma City

By Percy Allen

Seattle Times staff reporter

PREV 1 of 2 NEXT

Enlarge this photo

TINA FINEBERG / AP

NBA commissioner David Stern pauses as he takes questions at a news conference about the relocation vote by the NBA Board of Governors on Friday in New York.

Enlarge this photo

TINA FINEBERG / AP

Seattle SuperSonics' owner Clay Bennett discusses the team's pending move to Oklahoma City.

Related

    * Reader Feedback | What are your thoughts on the Sonics' relocation vote?
    * How will you say goodbye to the Sonics?
    * Clay Bennett fires back, says lease lawsuit is a ruse to force sale of Sonics

Recent stories

E-mails reveal Sonics owners intended to bolt from Seattle

The Five Stages of Grief | Denial

The Five Stages of Grief | Anger

The Five Stages of Grief | Bargaining

The Five Stages of Grief | Depression

The Five Stages of Grief | Acceptance/Hope

Archive | Oklahoma House passes tax package designed to help lure Sonics

Archive | Sonics co-owner McClendon fined $250K (August 2007)

Archive | Sonics owner: "Little hope" team will stay (April 2007)

Documents

Ward: "Are we doomed to have another lameduck season in Seattle?" (PDF)

Bennett's e-mail to Stern: "You are just one of my favorite people on earth" (PDF)

City's brief in support of motion to compel (PDF)

Statement from Slade Gorton about KeyArena funding (PDF)

Clay Bennett and Sonics' court filing (PDF)

Multimedia

Gallery | Seattle SuperSonics: Lasting memories

Gallery | Bittersweet night for Sonics fans

Gallery | Sonics through the years

Gallery | 25th anniversary of Sonics world championship

Gallery | End of a Season, End of a Franchise?

Sports fan "Big Lo" seeks answers from Howard Schultz

Fans weigh in about the state of the Sonics

Cartoon | Schultz jumps into action

950 KJR-AM | Clay Bennett's e-mail to Stern

Talk about the team in the Sonics forum

NEW YORK — NBA owners overwhelmingly approved the Sonics' relocation bid to Oklahoma City today by a 28-2 vote of the league's Board of Governors.

"The support for the NBA demonstrated by the fans, government leaders and business community of Oklahoma City over the last three years has been extraordinary," said NBA commissioner David Stern. "The Board of Governors is confident that the level of local support will result in success for the Sonics franchise in Oklahoma."

Mark Cuban of the Dallas Mavericks and Paul Allen of the Portland Trail Blazers were the only votes against the move. Allen was not in New York for the meeting, represented by team president Larry Miller.

The City of Seattle has filed a lawsuit to keep the Sonics at KeyArena through a lease that ends in 2010. A trial is scheduled to begin June 16. Stern said the Sonics are prepared to play two more seasons in Seattle if the team loses in court.

The Sonics ownership group had offered a $26.5 million settlement to the City of Seattle to pay the remaining two years of the KeyArena lease rather than fulfill a "specific performance clause" that requires them to play games inside the building. That offer was rejected.

Sonics chairman Clay Bennett expressed regret that the team would leave Seattle, either before next season or after the lease expires in 2010, but said, "I'm thrilled for Oklahoma."

The Sonics will have to pay a $30 million relocation fee.

Bennett was asked if he felt he had made a good-faith effort to keep the Sonics in Seattle.

"No question about it," Bennett said. "I think about it all the time. We could not engender the leadership of the marketplace to support a new building."

Metropolitan King County Councilman Pete von Reichbauer said local officials should accept that the current Sonics team is destined to leave. He said officials should stop demonizing Bennett and focus on negotiating a deal with the NBA to keep the Sonics name and get a future franchise.

"If our goal is to have an NBA franchise here, we've got to get the various groups together and create a common agenda and focus," said von Reichbauer, R-Federal Way. "Right now there are so many people willing to throw hand grenades into the room that we're losing."

Both Bennett and Stern made it clear the Sonics are moving to Oklahoma City, whether it's now or after two more seasons.

Bennett was asked about another NBA team replacing the Sonics eventually in Seattle.

"Seattle should be a future opportunity for the league," Bennett said, "but a modern building must be built."

Stern and Bennett both restated their belief that KeyArena is not a venue that meets NBA standards.

Stern, when asked about the NBA's future in Seattle, was critical of recent comments made by former U.S. Senator Slade Gorton.

"I'm trying hard on one hand to not close the door [on a future NBA franchise in Seattle] but I'm giving this press conference in the face of a scorched-earth policy [by Gorton] to inflict as much possible injury on our team as he can," Stern said.

Bennett was asked about leaving the Sonics nickname, colors and history in Seattle.

"I believe the name should probably stay in Seattle," he said.

Both Bennett and Stern said that was a decision on that would probably have to wait until after the court case was settled.

Earlier today, Bennett, who filed a relocation request on Nov. 2, presented the other 29 NBA owners with a relocation plan highlighted by the lucrative benefits that he'll receive in Oklahoma City.

"Oklahoma City gave a wonderful presentation," Los Angeles Lakers co-owner Jeannie Buss said after the vote.

According to league sources, Bennett also detailed struggles to build an arena in the Seattle area during his presentation. He also downplayed filings from the city's case last week that revealed e-mails between the Oklahoma City-based owners. In those e-mails, the owners discussed moving the team during the one-year period following the July 2006 sale in which they had pledged "good faith best efforts" to keep the franchise in Seattle.

Bennett walked into the meeting with seven votes from the relocation committee comprised of New Jersey Nets owner Lewis Katz, Indiana Pacers owner Herb Simon, Los Angeles Lakers vice president Jeanie Buss, San Antonio Spurs owner Peter Holt, Miami Heat managing general partner Micky Arison, Chris Cohan of the Golden State Warriors and Ed Snider of the Philadelphia 76ers.

The committee's recommendation outweighed the objections from U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, Gov. Christine Gregoire and Seattle Mayor Greg Nickels, who sent letters to Stern urging him to postpone the vote until the team resolves its legal affairs.

After the vote, Murray and Cantwell each issued statements:

"I'm disappointed that NBA leadership has ignored calls for good-faith efforts to keep the Sonics in Seattle and rewarded the bad-faith behavior of Clay Bennett and his ownership group," said Murray. "Violating the public's trust with empty promises is unacceptable, and the NBA's decision today sets a poor precedent."

Cantwell said, "For decades the Sonics have been part of the Seattle community and its culture. As an avid sports fan, I'm dismayed to see the NBA rewarding such unsportsmanlike conduct. The Sonics ownership misrepresented their true intentions to the community and yet the NBA gives them a bonus for this bad-faith effort."

The Sonics will become the fourth franchise to relocate since 1985. The Kansas City Kings moved to Sacramento, the Vancouver Grizzlies to Memphis and the Charlotte Hornets to New Orleans.

Bennett's attorneys filed a federal-court motion Wednesday accusing Nickels of a "Machiavellian plan" to force him to sell the Sonics back to Seattle investors led by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer.

Bennett repeatedly has said the Sonics are not for sale and if he's unable to negotiate a buyout then he'll ride out the remaining two years of the lease if necessary.

In anticipation of the team's arrival, Oklahoma City voters last month approved a $121 million sales-tax package to renovate the city's Ford Center arena and build an NBA practice facility.

The Oklahoma Legislature sweetened the pot for the NBA on Thursday, approving a payroll-tax rebate for the Sonics worth an estimated $60 million over 15 years. The state House approved the measure 67-32 and sent it to Gov. Brad Henry, who swiftly signed it into law.

Supporters of the rebate plan said the team's relocation would have a $180 million economic impact on the state over 15 years and bring other intangible benefits to the state. Oklahoma City hosted the New Orleans Hornets for two seasons after the team was uprooted from its home arena following Hurricane Katrina in August 2005.

Mark Rupp, director of the Washington, D.C., office for Gregoire, said the governor wants to begin dialogue with the NBA about replacing the Sonics if they leave.

"We definitely want to have conversations with the NBA about getting a franchise in Seattle," Rupp said. "My general understanding is that they are looking to go international, but Seattle is one of the most international cities in the world."

Seattle Times staff reporter Jim Brunner and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

 E-mail article     Print view      Share:    Digg     Newsvine
Foot of spring snow forecast in Cascades

By Sonia Krishnan

Seattle Times staff reporter

PREV 1 of 2 NEXT

Enlarge this photo

JOHN LOK / THE SEATTLE TIMES

Snowboarder Ivan Marcinko rides a railing during a video shoot at the Summit at Snoqualmie ski area Thursday. More than a foot of powder is expected in the Cascades today, putting the icing on a big season for skiers and boarders.

Enlarge this photo

JOHN LOK / THE SEATTLE TIMES

The lifts were closed Thursday at the Summit at Snoqualmie, but a few hardy visitors took to the slopes anyway. The area will operate Saturday and Sunday, and managers are considering extending the season.

Related

    * Looking ahead: Five-day forecast

April showers? Count on it today — and some snow.

The mountain passes are expected to be hit with more than a foot of powder this weekend, delivering a grand finale to ski resorts as the season comes to a close.

And snow was reported this morning in the lowland areas around Seattle, just weeks after a rare spring storm dumped icy rain and snow throughout Western Washington.

This latest round of snow and rain is indeed unusual, forecasters say. The last time Seattle-area residents contended with snow this late in the season was more than three decades ago, when Seattle-Tacoma International Airport reported snow on April 17, 1972, said Johnny Burg, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.

Cameras captured it snowing briefly from Edmonds to Everett earlier, but that's already melted, said meteorologist Chris Burke.

Residents this morning spotted snowflakes sticking in Ferndale, Whatcom County, and wet snow mixed with rain in North Seattle, Burg said.

But snow has to fall at Sea-Tac Airport today to set another record, he said this morning. It's 45 degrees there now.

Skiers and area resorts continue to reap the benefits. .

"We've had powdery snow practically the whole season," said Duncan Howat, general manager at Mount Baker. "This is a great end for what's already been a record season for us."

In the Seattle-area lowlands, low temperatures will be near freezing, with the snow level dropping to 1,000 feet.

"There will be places that will see a mix of rain and snow, but it won't stick," Burg said. "It will probably surprise some people."

Howat expects some will happily head to the mountains to get their final ski or snowboard fix of the season.

advertising

"It's going to be so dang cold on Saturday, you can't really do anything else. You might as well come out and ski," he said. "It looks like there will be good-quality powder snow to be had."

The Summit at Snoqualmie will be open Saturday and Sunday, and Mount Baker will operate lifts today through Sunday.

Crystal Mountain and Stevens Pass closed last Sunday and have no plans to reopen, despite the white windfall.

"It was a great winter, with 481 inches of snow — well over 100 inches more than the average annual. So thank you, La Niña," said a recording at Crystal Mountain.

Years ago, Mount Baker used to operate well into May — and even went until July 4 once during the 1970s, Howat said. But now its season concludes in late April, ending this year on April 27.

The Summit at Snoqualmie will keep its Summit Central base open until Sunday, spokeswoman Holly Lippert said. The Alpental base, with advanced black and double-black diamond runs, is scheduled to close May 5. Managers at the Summit at Snoqualmie are still "kicking around" the idea of extending the season, Lippert said.

For now, both Snoqualmie and Mount Baker will continue to operate on limited spring schedules.

"Traditionally we are not that busy this time of year, but that hasn't been the case at all," Lippert said. "We're anticipating a healthy crowd this weekend."

For those who stay in the lowlands, highs today and Saturday are expected to hover in the 40s, with lows in the 30s. This time of year, highs typically approach 60, according to the weather service.

It's expected to be chilly enough that "during the daytime on Friday and Saturday, we could see some [temperature records] broken," Burg said.